this is episode 1 in this episode and in
every episode I imagine we're gonna look
at at least one simple sentence
structure we're going to look at a short
reading passage that will be of
political interest all of the examples
are of some political significance we're
gonna look at one more difficult idiom
and we're gonna take at least one
character and break it down into its
radicals which is to say break it down
into its component parts
thioester gen Dom shelling him and don't
so ezel hi although I may not have much
in common with the chairman politically
I can certainly appreciate that he uses
simple vocabulary and simple sentence
structure in a sophisticated way however
even with these short clauses the short
simple phrases you find that understand
what he's saying you encounter idiom
after idiom after idiom so here
Lula and woman we have to understand
both Gulen and all and all so we kind of
get to idioms for the price of one
they're both very useful they're both
very commonly used reading the examples
to have the bottom in the stern of the
screen here
Buland one yen Ching ent Buland one yen
Ching no matter how young you are no
matter how youthful you may be now I'm
using all examples that have taken from
real current usage found in basically
newspaper articles on the Internet
you might be able to guess this is from
a discussion of skincare you know
moisturizers skin creams no matter how
young you are you might want to spend a
ton of money on skincare phocion woolen
bone inching second example wouldn't or
none right so Nan Goldin on
no matter how hard no matter how
difficult it is this is from a political
statement which actually read in full
was saying no matter how hard it is we
still have to learn to embrace one
another so interesting political
sentiment
Buland will none no matter how hard no
matter how difficult this is all kind of
level one vocabulary aside from this
idiom
huland wool and wool and wool gives us
the sense of no matter how much
notwithstanding how great the quantity
the difficulty whatever it may be so our
third example will induce young guy bien
no matter how much I wanted to change no
matter how much I wanted to change I
guess I was still stuck being myself
it's the sentiment of that sentence
woollen without the dual we have here in
this example on the bottom half of the
screen woolen top it's a much wool all
right no matter what he said woolen
taught so much wool this is from a
political context where the current
leader of Taiwan is actually speaking
about the man she faced off with in the
elections so well no matter what he said
Taiwan is nevertheless an independent
country so as you can imagine this use
of woolen it's adaptable to many
sentiments and many circumstances and it
is not always negative and tone it is
not always castigating it is not always
reproachful tone the actual example we
have here from the chairman of the
Communist Party of China from the leader
of China Xi Jinping he's saying well
woolen woman no matter how busy I may be
no matter how busy I was right so it's
actually in a positive or somewhat
wistful sense that he's using it
dogs horses and Dom why pretend that
Chinese is easy even when Chinese is
easy it's really pretty difficult and
this is a great example of that Toshi
kyun I did recognize this verb but I
knew it from completely irrelevant words
with completely irrelevant meanings you
might know this from the verb meaning to
smoke cigarettes you see it in signs
telling you
to smoke cigarettes I knew it from
completely unrelated words related to
abstract reasoning guess what the
fundamental root meaning of this verb
completely unknown to me is to pull
something out to draw something out boom
on toy horses Jen Dom so what he's
saying is no matter how busy he may be
he still has to find the time when Dom
so you can also ask yourself the
question would you prefer to just
memorize this as a three character idiom
or do you want to take the time to try
to break down and understand the root
meaning of this verb show tone one Joe
do you want to take the time to try to
memorize the range of meanings it has in
combination because in this case there
is a dizzying unbelievable array of
meanings associated with this one simple
character the first character here you
need to know from the unrelated word T
ASEAN well I suppose it's as related as
any two words aren't Chinese the Chinese
have a cultural conviction that each and
every one of us has a special town a
special City a special neighborhood
somewhere in the world that we are
indelibly and magically linked to from
our birth forward and that is your Josh
yang so you're Jesse on it is not the
same as your hometown in English their
idea of what your Jass yang is is quite
different from any cultural concept we
have so whether this is level one
vocabulary or level 10 vocabulary if you
actually talk to Chinese people you need
to know this word in this concept Jesse
on from a very early date in your
practicing you're using the Chinese
language
I warned you at the start of the video
that we take at least one character and
break it down into its components
discuss the rat
holes that comprise the character and in
this case interestingly the traditional
character makes more sense than the
simplified character you should be able
to recognize the symbol for food right
there at the center of the character of
course the character we're talking about
is young we might say Josh young this
young Josh only saw meaning the
characters young as in the word Josh
young right in the middle we're looking
at the food radical unfortunately it is
a somewhat corrupted version of the food
radical there's a difference between
corruption and simplification just for
no good reason it is not quite identical
to the half-width form of the food
radical that you would have seen in many
different characters to the left and to
the right of the food radical we have
coherently enough the mirrored image of
a person kneeling okay if you look this
up in the dictionary you're gonna get
some distracting information about the
city wall we're attic one so on and so
forth but without digressing into too
many details you can see in the lower
left corner of the screen here that we
have within the historical record a much
more symmetrical way of drawing this
character it was two people sitting on
opposite sides of a pot of cooking food
and that was how we drew the character
young now unfortunately if you look at
the simplification of the character the
modern simplification carried out with a
communist party of china in the top
right hand corner of the screen shown
using white ink they have only kept one
kneeling figure from the left-hand side
of the character and of course in all
versions of the character in modern use
today it has been stylized to the point
of in comprehensibility
now you should be able to put the
meaning of the phrase together even if
you're unfamiliar with each and every
one of the words comprising it this is
tin as in Mouton Fujian and G 1414 since
he it's also noteworthy that when you
hear the leader of China
speaking German don't there isn't
anything terribly distinctive about the
cue sound the consonant that we write in
pinyin is Q in contrast to a CH sound
that varies with dialect but it also
varies depending on what bowel is paired
with this consonant q 17 mojo
someone might you know reproach you or
correct you in the classroom if you just
pronounce the letter Q as a regular CH
sound but sometimes in practice that is
what the Q really sounds like all right
so you guys have probably guessed the
meaning already right so we learned that
C on is the same song that we know from
Joseon and tin is the same chin that we
know from Fujian muchi and sin Chi so
therefore C on t man Jong amongst the
town's folk when he's walking amongst
the villagers him and also easel high so
this is the fourth and final sentence
pattern closing this short quotation so
Edo Connie captain it's all easel high
to have a walk around and have a look
around this is a sentence pattern I use
all the time in Chinese and that I've
used for my first days as a beginner and
I use it so frequently for the same
reason that chairman C Jinping is using
it here it is very easy for Chinese
people to understand so if somebody asks
you to do something you can say to them
well I don't know if I can do it I'm not
confident but I can have a try Ayesha
for me as a teacher
very often I would ask students in the
classroom to try to do something to try
to say something even though maybe they
didn't know how to say it or they didn't
want to do it so you'd say sure you
should write
so Zoe diesel candy cane shisha I don't
know if anyone's ever made a list of all
of the verbs that can fit into this
idiom or sends better but that closes
this kind of wistful reflection from
chairman xi jinping what is he telling
you no matter how busy he may be
nevertheless he always finds the time so
remember Cho the meaning of this the
root
like pulling the string out of a
spinning top to draw something out to
pull something out he manages to find
the time he manages to pull out the the
spare time in the gaps in between doing
other things this kind of image he
manages to find the time to walk around
and have a look around amongst the
villagers amongst the town's folk dogs
hosted in Dom showing him and don't saw
easel
hi and I promised you there would be a
reading passage here in episode 1 and
indeed there is so if you would like to
study this on your own
we will return to it in Episode two and
then you'll get analysis translation
discussion similar to what you've seen
here in episode one applied to this
reading passage and more with the same
pattern and again using examples taken
from newspapers current political events
of our time the first six characters are
a Western name transcribed or you might
say transliterated into Chinese so this
is Norman by Joe on okay Norman Bethune
Norman by Joanne Shahadah conch and
onion Tasha
Yong Ming the typhoon with a bunch of
John who the Congress charged on a Joe
San Shi en Lai Dow Chango see you next
episode
[Music]